e
for
[Music]
spe
e
[Music]
I
can't
[Music]
by look what we've done we
gone we
[Music]
fight station
on our own
[Music]
can you feel emot
gentle FS the
[Music]
our spirits
dear
gentle follows down
hello
hello are you
real can you hear
me are you all
good I I can't quite he that transition
so I am not even
sure if that sounded cool or if that
sucked I have no
idea good
morning all right I think that worked
I'm a bit
quiet
okay
um what can we do what can we do
um what was I
doing I was doing
something we
can make this
better
somehow hold on
filters gain
is this is this
better is this
improved does this
work
okay good
nice awesome welcome to the house of
horrors hello good
morning this is violet Pony reporting to
you live from my new
computer I have been slowly setting it
up over the past like
month and I believe it is now ship shape
or something of the
sort
um you can now look
at um
that really awesome image
recently bestowed upon
me I've
am so honored to have this in my
life um 911 is
funny so anyway welcome to the house of
horrors
um hello there's a lot on the screen
well more on screen possible if we bring
it to the new camera view I
have the camera angle is weird I'm not
used to it I got a new one so now I can
point to that and I can say there's elf
right there I think I think that's
working is elf speaking you sit on a
throne of true
so um I'm never good at
discussing
but my keyboard looks like a
worm yeah I dropped my keyboard it just
did that everyone always asks
and I have to say very
unfortunate um fate for this for this
thing um I broke
it um this is proof of plate tectonics
at
work I'm really proud to I was never
book
smart money
smart makes me more
intelligent um you know things of the
sort I I don't actually know what I'm
saying
um keyboard
earthquake how do we
stream how do we do this it's been a
little bit
take keyboard commissions
um I actually I haven't been really
doing anything
with uh building keyboards
lately I've just been busy and tired and
weather and part it's I
don't know how to say this but like I
can't I can't be buying all these parts
all the
time
so um I don't think I do uh keyboard
commissions right now I think that's
kind of
stressful maybe in the future maybe
someday
but at the moment I'm not even making
keyboards for myself right now so we're
we're at that stage but I do I do
have some ones I really like some ones I
really
like did you learn an instrument do you
know one I'm not sure if that's like a
joke um you can't tell if that's
sarcasm um I can play piano I can sing I
can play guitar kind of I can play
uh I have well when I say guitar I'm
like grouping so many different
instruments in because I have a ukulele
I have a b guitar and I have like three
guitars right next to me but I kind of
all consider those like guitar is
because they all play very similarly
except base you know a little bit a
little bit different but the concept is
still the same so
um if I could learn to play any
instrument that I don't already
know um I I kind of wish
that someone could like upload
the knowledge to my brain of how to play
a
violin I don't actually want to do it
though that's the thing is like that's
really out of my comfort zone probably
learning how to play a violin so I kind
of just want someone to to
upload
like the knowledge into my brain so I
don't have to get there because it's
hard that that one um have you tried
singing I'm looking into it be honest
with you I'm looking into it we're going
to try and work this
out violent is so fun takes a INE yeah
also violins are like a really expensive
instrument to get into as
well and not just that but like unlike a
guitar where you can just like throw
that [__] around and it doesn't give a
[__] you maybe tune it once in a while
um violin is so
temperamental like a VI violin you have
to take such good care of and like I
like being able to throw [__] around
like I kind of like throwing things I
like hitting things I love beating
things with sticks and and whatnot um
but long story short it's really nice
because I don't have a lot of like space
for instruments right now I don't have a
place to like put a really fragile
instrument so if I had a violin like a
good violin it would probably just get
destroyed within the next like two
months
so um trombone would trombone would be
fun trumpet would be fun um I'm probably
not in the best place to be practicing
instruments that are that loud
so yeah are the two songs you Dro for
monarch of monsters
no no they are not they might be for
something else as it remains to be seen
but they are not for
Monarch um so let let me let me explain
this um ever so around
2018 is when I started taking a lot of
like client work so I started doing a
lot of like music for uh other people so
like people who need stuff for like a a
character or a story or or a a film or a
video or
something um ever since 2018 I have been
doing that pretty
frequently and those that that stuff has
always been like kind of in the
background even if I'm not actively go
taking taking a client thing at the time
that's still in the
queue
um
so I have not really had a break from
having work to do for other people for
about five
years
um
and recently uh this year I was like
okay I got to stop taking my time CU
like all these all this like client Q
stuff is like eating at me even when I'm
not like going directly at it it's like
eating at me in the background like I
can't work on a bunch of the stuff that
I want to work on because if I do then I
have to be like explaining to the other
people I'm working with like oh yeah
sorry I was doing this other
thing um I apologize so a lot of times I
would stop myself from doing anything
else because I would work instead
on um the client stuff cuz I I would
stop myself from doing any personal
personal art some personal art got out
there like cute CD marks fish whisper
Carousel like those are personal and I
was able to do those during the
commission queue I had but like just the
work to be done for other people in the
background really affected my ability to
do
stuff
so this
year several months ago I decided okay
we're going to power
through everything I have to do for
everyone
else and we're going to be done with
we're going to be rid of it we're going
to be completely rid of it and
so I set out to do that I like looked at
my list I talked to my clients and was
like Hey we're we're g to get this [__]
done I can't the camera angle is really
weird I keep thinking that you guys can
see it like this because my camera used
to be angled downward but now it's like
right down so I have to be
like like that okay cool um I was like
we're going to get this [__] done and
we're going to be done with it we're no
more so to put this into perspective um
last month
in
September I believe I finished 10 songs
like an album's worth of stuff for other
people I had a bunch of songs for like
people's like fan fs and stories and
characters and stuff I was scoring a
bunch of other people's like animations
and films and stuff I was like I just
got it all done like in one month I did
like 10 songs in
September um and what's really [__]
about that is like I put my all into it
and some of my favorite songs I've ever
done are those commissions now and I
can't even like share a bunch of them
yet because they're all under
NDA um like literally I would say one of
my top 10 favorite songs I've ever made
is for someone's film that I scored a
month or two ago and I wish I could
share it right now but I can't share it
until next year when their film goes out
and gets put into the uh it gets
submitted to where they're trying to
submit
it but it sucks because I
I [__] put my all into that and I
[__] love that song so so so much but
I can't share that right now I I will be
able to next year but
unfortunately
um I can't right now but long story
short
I've been I've I'm
done there is there are no commissions
there are no client projects in my queue
at all anymore for the first time that
it's clear for the first time in five
years and so the fact that you just saw
me put up two songs like just over the
past couple of days is a result of me
not having to do work for other people
anymore
um I because I can just do that because
I can just like go go with whatever I'm
feeling which is why I don't know if
you've seen on Twitter because Twitter's
a [__] skatee so I get it if you're not
there but what I've been saying on
Twitter is um I'm working on nine albums
right
now
uh that's not an exaggeration like I've
counted the projects I have
conceptualized and it adds up to n
albums that I'm working on all at once
right now three of them are like or four
four of them are like in very active
development and then the other five are
sort of just they're they're like I'm
just conceptualizing them I have like
track lists I have some demos I have
some illustrations I've been talking
with some other artists and stuff so the
the other five are like planned but
right now there are four in like active
development there's the uh Paradise
Valley
mixtape uh there's the U monarch of
monster 's thing I'm doing a thing with
the care I don't really know if I
pronounce her name correctly care poo
poo she does the funny Rarity pony
animations and like low polygon Twilight
Sparkle
stuff um I'm doing a project with
her and then the fourth one is the songs
I put out in the past couple of days I'm
going to try and put something together
with that because I really I really like
that I've been really enjoying it um the
songs I just put out the first one uh
bear witness to the Lotus I did the
whole song from start to finish in 1
hour at like 3:00 a.m. and then I just
uploaded it I went into Affinity photo
and it just like scribbled with my mouse
and then just uploaded it to YouTube so
I made that song in an hour and then
um the second song I put out uh pleading
with a hotline Android I made that in
two hours did the same thing scribbled
the thing in Affinity photo with my
mouse and then I uploaded it and that
was it so
um and like none of this stuff had
anything coming before it so I didn't
have anything to work off of I just like
opened Ableton I started going crazy and
then I just uploaded
it but um I'm like okay um clearly this
is working for me I'm going to see if I
can make an album full of songs that I
spend no more than three hours on each
of them
and I think that it works because I'm
always just working on my
intuition
um and when I'm just going purely from
feeling and intuition it like just feels
great because I'm not thinking too much
I'm just like playing stuff with my
hands and
like putting things together really
really
quickly it's like as as free flowing as
possible it's a flow State
situation um um but yeah
uh 2023 has been the year where I've
been listening to the most music I think
I have in a long time in the sense that
I think when I first got into electronic
music in 2011
2012 I went crazy just discovering so
much music and
like finding new stuff and revisiting
old music and then it sort of like
trailed off I listened to less and less
and new stuff and Expos my myself to
like less and less new art and
2023 um it's been two things one it's
been going back into like all the stuff
that my parents would put on all the
stuff I used to hear on the radio and
like kind of doing a deep dive into that
stuff cuz my my parents are into a lot
of different music
um and although I don't really talk to
them
now um I still appreciate a lot of the
um music that was
around um but a lot of it I didn't quite
know very well like I just S I was just
I just sort of heard it idly like in the
car or on the stereo in the living room
or like wherever um and I've going been
going back and like trying to do a deep
dive into everything I can remember and
it's been really cool because there's a
lot of stuff that I kind of skimmed over
as a kid that is like just huge to me
now I just I just love it so much um and
the other thing is I've been listening
to so much more new music stuff I that
just came out this year and stuff that I
had in the backlog for a while I now
have like an active like listening queue
of just stuff
that um I I just I just have a list of
like stuff I want to listen to um I
think the important thing is that
beforehand I was always like making it a
big ritual like all right it's time to
listen to some music I got to like get a
get a nice like cup of coffee I got to
like sit back and I got to like like
make a whole ritual out of listening to
an album and it's like that's so not
actually that great because then it
makes it harder to want to get back into
that ritual over and over again so
instead I've just been like putting on
new stuff if I'm commuting somewhere if
I'm like cleaning my room or if I'm
doing some like non-music like um
[__] errands and work and stuff just
like and it's great making like stopping
having that ritual has been really good
I'm kind of rambling right now but the
point is that like all these things
combined I'm able to make so much more
music now cuz I'm exposing myself to so
much more music and I don't have stuff
to do for other people right now so
basically what I'm saying is um
2024 is going to probably be the most
music I've in 2024 I'll probably I will
probably put out the most music of any
year I've ever had I think
I would say I used to do like two to
three albums a year like that was just
normal and then um after 2019 when
things got like really [__] hard for
me um it's like oh big deal just one
album a year like some people you know
wait five plus years between albums
maybe more and it's like oh wo is me I
can only put out one album a year wow so
sad but like in reality that's already
like a crazy output I think but um
we're 2024 basically it's going to be a
crazy year because I'm
free I'm
free i' I've I'm out of I'm out of the
game for good well not out of all I'm
taking a break from commissions and
client work and stuff and I just have so
many ideas that have been backlogged and
so many ideas that I'm having especially
as a result of listening to so much new
music that um yeah 2024 is going to be a
little bit [__] insane so you
know um rate your music is actually a
pretty decent site to discover music on
if you can just like ignore the ratings
cuz like half of the time they're just
like
dismal even though it's like even though
it's like a great album or
something um
the thing is you can sort by like what
other people like if you're friends with
people want rate your music you can see
what they're listening to you can get
recommendations um there's this whole
process on right your music they have
like this challenge thing it's like you
can get a playlist of a bunch of stuff
that's in the range of stuff you've
rated highly or you could get the
antithesis of it they can recommend you
things that are the complete opposite of
what you're favoring so you can like
literally find something that's like
very very
different mid a thief plays an enor mid
a plays
en in
my yes here we go one
second I haven't opened this yet I tend
to open every vinal that I get but um I
just haven't for this one for some
reason but I do have crumbling after
go this way but I do have
crumbling on
V I might
have their debut as well but
I I did get theard VL hold on I'm see if
I
yes I did get the Boneyard vinyl as well
I need to remember to
not put this upside down I'm so used to
my camera being upside down so I keep
trying to present things upside down but
I don't need to because it's right side
up this
time I can't show you the vital
collection but I can like pick some
things out um I need to do like this a a
vinyl Showcase of stuff cuz I've been
finally building that up I've neglected
to build up a vinyl collection for a
long time even though it's like my my
parents were always just like oh you
need to start like building up your
library it's like yeah yeah yeah but
like Spotify but like whatever and then
that's like a
mistake it was a mistake so um best
thing you can do for yourself as a music
fan is buy music Buy digital stuff buy
physic stuff because anything besides
that is so
unstable I I I absolutely
have L's Effigy and what's cool about
this one is inside they
have they have a they have a thing with
the with with the
guys and there's many of them there's
many more guys to be
held so very very awesome that we got
bonus dudes because I was going to be
like there's so many dudes on this cover
I wish there were more and it's like
they give me the the vinyl and inside lo
and behold they gave us more dudes like
that's
awesome if you have a bunch of Duds on
your Al cover you can always have more
um okay my brain kind of exploded a
little bit uh sprain I don't even really
think it can be put into words I would
just say listen to the album from start
to finish in a dark room
alone I did sample the galade in hot the
galade cry in hotland Androids so I I
was talking about this a few days ago I
I talk about this every now and then
with people that I know but I don't
think I've ever talked about this public
um when I was a
kid I
um when my my favorite Pokemon game of
all time is Pokemon
Platinum full stop my I think it's the
best Pokemon game had the best music
some of the best new designs the
environments the story like the whole
situation Pokemon Platinum was just it
was just the peak it was the peak of
Pokemon like let's be realistic
um and what I would do is uh Platinum
was one of the only Pokemon games where
I actually completed the full Pokedex I
almost never do this with a Pokemon
game um but with Platinum I love that
game so goddamn much that I finished the
whole [__] Pokedex that never happens
the whole national decks not the not the
not the um is that what it's called not
the not the uh Regional Pokedex I
finished the National Pokedex all um for
platinum it was 493 Pokemon up to rcus
um I finished the whole thing and I
never do that for any Pokemon game and
what I would do was once I finish the
national decks I would literally on a on
car trips on train rides at school after
school at home wherever the [__] I was
if I had my Nintendo DS with me what I
would do is I would open the national
decks for Pokemon Platinum and I'd just
scroll through every single Pokemon and
just like listen to the sound they made
over and over and over and over and over
again and if you want proof of this I
was just doing this the other
day the Pokemon cry quiz is it basically
plays um a Pokemon cry and then you have
to match it to the Pokemon that it is so
um if you can't hear this let me know
but otherwise I'm going to start let's
see
toxic oh God damn
it I think that was I think that's
manife pass
xray
M I think that's
floatzel
[Music]
K critin uh n out of 10 what did I get
wrong um yeah manif and fan like [__]
you so so whatever but like I got nine
out of 10 on that let's do it again I
was doing this last
night Gen 4 is my my jam Le
on Crick Shanks
Lucario
[Music]
carnine that's honc right 10 out of 10
see it's like I know these cries so
[__] well that I can like within a
few seconds just get a 10 out of 10
score in the [__] Gen 4 cry
quiz so that is to say say I know these
sounds by heart and I have a folder on
my computer with I think everything up
to sun and
moon and so when I was like um part of
pleading with a hotline Android is this
is is a sort of queer experience like
subtext um like this idea of uh gender
and gender fluidity and just like the
perception of gender in most of
like like modern
sorry muted my microphone uh perception
of gender in modern society and one of
the things that came to mind was like
how galade and gavor in Pokemon are like
ridiculously weirdly
gendered like it's very much like um
gavor can be whatever but galid has to
be the the male Pokemon it was like such
a like that was so strange to me
especially because like gardav War could
be whatever but like gal had to be 100%
male character and always that was
always weird when I was a kid as well
and like when you redefine that in the
context of like being a queer person as
well it's like that's like weird the way
they gendered these Pokemon it's like
yeah they're animals and whatnot
whatever but like Gort could be whatever
again
so I don't know so that that was like a
very confusing thing and I decided to
implement gad's cry
into um the song because it felt like a
sort of like
like I I felt I was hearing the galade
in my head like being outraged at this
like outward perception of them you know
like this question of gender fluidity
and perception of gender and like galade
that kind of character that's like
forced into be a particular perceived
thing is like crying out like [__] off
with all this [__] I'm [__] whatever
you know what I mean so legitimately to
what it boils down to is yes I included
the galade song or the G
um cry into the song I just put out
because I was like this thing is
transgender um and also like completely
irregardless of like any narrative
Intrigue the GED cry just sounds really
[__] cool like's it can just be as
simple as that it sounds really [__]
cool
like for me as a musician and a sound
designer obviously I'm thinking about
these things all the time but I think to
everyone
else these sounds are so well made and
so interesting that you don't even Rec
you don't even like think about how
they're made like let's let's let's do
it let's go
to let's go to
the the [__] go
here
um I can read video
games Pokemon let's just do the Black
and White Version because it's a little
bit more crusty and then
I have a
question e
okay I'm going slightly insane
anyway um what was I saying I was trying
to find Gall and I forgot gad's
number probably I probably passed it
didn't I
there it is so like
this when you're listening to like these
Pokmon
sounds if you're not like a musician or
a sound designer I don't think the first
thought of yours is like how is this
sound made but like I want you to listen
to
this and then I want you to like ask
yourself how did they [__] make this
sound how did they do
that obviously you could consider
different techniques
from your own perspective and make
something that sounds similar to it but
like I want to know what they
did to get it to be that interesting
sounding because a lot of times no it
isn't with their mouths usually this is
synthesis usually this is
synthesis and it's not just that like I
think of uh
well those ones are more obvious cuz
that's like um like Sid chips and Game
Boy and that was a little bit more
obvious
but like this one this is the Palo
one like what the
hell that [__] like twinkly ass like
orb sounding
thing I'm sitting here like how the [__]
did they make that what did they do to
accomplish that
sound often times the answer is like a
lot simpler than you expected but when
you're sitting from this outside
perspective and it's
like I don't know what they did it does
kind of sound like FNAF but it's like
not a screaming sound
[Music]
the the glacon one's [__]
crazy yeah I think some of them were
were integrating sound recordings but it
still doesn't quite explain to me like
where this comes from in
full I don't know but I think about it a
lot
um uh and if you didn't know there was a
there was so if you wanted to like use a
sampler let's take that sound for
example this one oh sh sh this
one if I put that into a sampler and I
transpose it across the keyboard well of
course
oops obviously if I were put that into a
sampler it transposes across the
keyboard um and that sounds fun that's
cool at all but um recently Sonic charge
released s
plant and um what this does is you can
put a sound in
it and it will try and make like a synth
from the ground up based on the
sound
um
so if we take this and we put this sound
in
here let's let's see let's see what it
creates from
there it's it's
[Applause]
thinking oh I'm so sorry yeah thank you
still thinking but like you get the idea
um that's not something I've spoken on
at length currently like publicly um but
I am very much
like I'm I'm like very upset with this
whole AI Revolution thing like I'm very
much against most of the tech Bros
implementation of AI I think it's like
terrible and
awful but we've been using Ai and music
technology for a while for decades at
this point or at least a decade um and
it's never been predatory the idea with
AI and music has always been to like
kind of just be assistive and to be
experimental rather than to do someone's
job for them um or to take something
that someone else has done and like
completely like rip it
off that's like a huge problem with
AI um and so in most cases I would I
would say that I very much denounce Ai
and its implementations everywhere like
image generators and like [__] song
generators for [__] sake like yeah
we're we're we're not for that even
slightly however uh sin plant 2 does use
Ai and I think it's ethical
because um it's not stealing from anyone
for for most it's just a synthesizer
it's not doing tone transfer that one
thing that those other AI things
do um it doesn't do someone's job for
them because like s plant seriously
cannot it only it's a very limited
synthesizer first and foremostly and it
cannot like replace a really well-made
patch by someone um like a preset maker
or you yourself learning to sound design
stuff um so it's not stealing from any
one doesn't like replace a job of
anything in fact it's not even like
useful for most of the things you want
to use synthesizers
for um so that in and itself s like
being able to have a sound because we
already have Samplers as I just
demonstrated you can put the sound in a
sampler and transpose it across the
keyboard and that's all fine and good
but with s plant T it's like a very
interesting um implementation of AI
because it it actually does something
that you probably wouldn't be able to do
yourself for sure without stealing from
anyone or doing anything weird or
predatory so long story short that is
what syn plant's new engine is like the
rest of the synthesizer has nothing to
do with that it's just that this thing
allows it to um try to create a synth
patch based on the sound you give
it um but in most cases I would say that
AI is currently being used and abused by
not very well-meaning
people so I have a hard time like
wanting to say that sin plant 2 is cool
because I don't want AI Bros to be like
oh great you support AI great awesome um
I can't wait for you to get into this I
hope you share this it's like I don't
I'm not one I'm not part of the team
dude I'm not on your team I just think
simp plant's cool and useful like don't
don't involve me in your AI garbage you
know what I mean so it's I I haven't
talked about this yet because it's like
I don't want people to think I'm on
their side you
know but AI has been used in music for a
while and again it's never to like
replace someone's job it's always to be
like assistive or be a second year or
like do something weird and
experimental so I hope that makes
sense regardless it's funny because
sometimes this thing is really good
ozone has been Ai and it's never been
good at
all I don't know how to put this but
like I feel like I could speedrun
mastering a song faster than ozone could
do as an AI and it would be like 10
times better
still like I'm not kidding like I I've
heard ozon's like AI mastering several
times and just yeah it literally just
gets
worse literally you would benefit more
from just like having an EQ and a
limiter just being done with it because
ozone just like like doesn't understand
things
I think AI mastering is a questionable
thing in and of itself I think it's best
if you're just trying to send something
off to like a client or whatever but um
it's never going to replace like a real
mastering engineer who's going to be
able to hear like oh I can do some
automation stuff here to like make this
transition better like it's never going
to be like a very basically what AI for
mastering is going to do is it's only
going to get to this point where it
could hear how loud can I make this
thing or how not as loud can I make this
thing it's like that's not the point
anyway that is all to say [__]
AI um there are some good
implementations of it if they're used as
like assistive tools if they're used to
make people's lives better but not if
they're being used to replace people's
jobs creatively if they're not if
they're being used as like predatory
like stealing [__] from everywhere
else um yeah we can't we can't do that
yeah so uh i' I've repeated myself a
bunch of times but like again this is
why I haven't talked about Sin plant
anywhere it's because like I don't want
people to think I'm on their
side so because I can explain that and
at length in here I think it's much
better much better for us here um sing a
song about life I put out an origin
story for
that okay robton we're GNA you're you're
out of here
buddy have a good
day
um uh my Tracy brakes was telling me
that they are good for making source
button sounds and I was like oh yeah
that makes total sense but then like I
started putting the The halflife Sounds
in in there I was like G to her like you
really [__] correct this thing's
crazy for that um cuz I have all the
halflife also if you think uh that the
sounds of my music have been portal
samples you're like kind of on the right
track but it's actually half life just
going to clear that up someone else
asked about to sing a song about life
sample I've already gone over this uh I
don't remember where I posted it but I
have the story out there somewhere but
long story short with to sing a song
about life sample it comes from
let me get the video let's just get the
video so when I
was how old would I have been I don't
remember 12 13 something like that um I
was doing track practice like I used to
do track I didn't like Track by the way
just put that out there but I used to do
track um I had this app on my iPod Touch
which was called laa and what that did
was you could sing or speak into it and
it would autotune your voice and then
make a make a generated song around it
and it was really cheesy and funny but
basically
um 11 years ago now I put up I put up
this video of a lah thing I did on my
iPod Touch um I was at track practice
and I I was trying to show some people
there how the app worked and this kid
named
Jacob when I hit record just perfectly
timed as a joke said sing a song about
life and the idea was like sing a song
about life and it's like something
stupid the idea is to sing something
stupid so it begins with Jacob
interjecting sing a song about life and
then it becomes this sing a song about
[Music]
life TOA cling
so yeah shout out to Jacob um his mom
hated
me that's like all I remember I think
Jacob was chill but his mom hated me I
don't remember why
but um when I was working on cutie marks
I started going through so many
different memories like recordings I had
and photos and videos I had and like
thinking about kind of my life in the
context of like all these changes I
heard that I was like oh my God I
remember the L do era where I was just
going around like saying stupid [__] and
I like suddenly had this like Epiphany
like this intro that Jacob
did could be reframed to be like really
meaningful like it could actually mean
something good while still connecting to
what was true about my past cuz like it
was so silly and I love the sing of it
and yet when it's articulated as the tag
that I've used for Cutie Marks and then
on I think it's like been a really cool
way of connecting both my past and my
present and my future and having it all
like brought together with like this
thing that was once funny and is a good
statement after that because it's like I
want to be real I want to be Earnest I
don't want to like fake this [__] so I
want to be like honest with these things
I'm feeling and thinking and
experiencing and that's that's kind of
what that tag Works to do
so that's that's the origin of
that um but the
halflife sounds they are halflife sounds
they're not portal sounds um portal
reused a bunch of sounds from
halflife because they're both by Valve
and they both use the source
engines but we can be like
I wonder what Sid plant thinks of this
sound let's find
out okay that doesn't even sound like
the original sound but that's kind of
[__] cool
but that's not quite what we were going
for I think cuz that's the original
one there there's the there's my
favorite one I think that's most
people's favorite Source sound effect if
I'm being honest next to the rag doll
booming
sound but let's see what it thinks of
this one
this just sounds like a [__] up
version of
it that's yeah that's what I'm saying
it's a Pokemon it's a Pokemon the Half
Life 2 USP yeah let's see if we can
I don't think it's going to handle this
one very well but let's see let's
shorten it as well let's go like here
I mean that's pretty
good that's not
that V Half Life 2 play through one I'd
love to I [__] love halflife with my
whole
heart the thing I haven't played in a
long time is Portal so cuz I played
halflife recently within the last year
so we don't go to ruin home
um have a good night Ricky sleep
well um this is a great ad for sin plan
I I'm actually really good at
advertising things when I'm not trying
to people say this whenever I talk
passionately about a plugin they're just
like you should become like a marketing
manager I'm like I know I
know
um I have heard of
halflife uh VR but the AI is software
but I haven't actually like participated
in any
way
um that's still the magnone sound but
what's really cool about s plant as well
is it's like oh this is really complex
sounding this is really cool but
something you have to realize about s
plant is it literally only has two
oscillators and what I mean by that is
for on a traditional
synthesizer an oscillator is the like
primary sound generator and then
everything else shapes that sound
generator so I I'll show you what I mean
but like for
example vital is a great example because
it has three oscillators and a noise
oscillator
so here's this oscillator playing a saw
wave and then I can turn this oscillator
off and then turn on like a sine wave
and you can put these two oscillators
together and you have a sine wave and a
saw wave playing at the same time but
but vital has a third oscillator and you
can you know just make it
whatever DET turn them a
little but um and it has a noise
oscillator here which add
[Music]
noise so when I say
oscillator um in terms of a synthesizer
what that means it's the primary sound
generator it's like the waveform
generator and then everything else
shapes it so like for example you have
an envelope you can take these three a
and make them pluck sounding instead by
doing
[Music]
this so a synthesizer a subtractive
synthesizer which is most synthesizers
will have an oscillator or two or three
or four or
infinite um and then all the stuff else
on a
synthesizer um is just like taking those
raw like waveforms and then shaping them
in interesting ways
so that being said what's so impressive
about Sin plant is it literally only has
two oscillators and one noise oscillator
despite
being able to produce these complex
sounds and then again what you can do is
they can take these
things and evolve them with the plant
thing
[Music]
let's give it something else really
quickly
um I
mean let's give it this and see what it
does with
it that is a [__] crazy sound it's
doing like that's super see this one it
got pretty accurately there's the
original sound here versus
and like it's doing all of this I'll
turn this oscillator off with exactly
these two with two oscillators and a
noise oscillator and that's
it it has no other sound generation
aside from its like sync stuff and it's
like FM stuff but it's only using two
oscillators and a noise oscillator so
about as much as you see here just with
this removed and it's like what the
[__] it's making these such complex
sounds and articulations while just
having a very limited amount of
oscillators I think that's really
cool
but I wonder if it could uh
acqu I think you could do this one I
mean this is just that just sounds like
FM stuff so
it's pretty
accurate take this take the Reverb off I
think that's pretty much it
[Music]
immediate warning H power level below
warning can we just do the warning
warning this this this this one brand
just like very not correct
whoa you can you can hear the vowel with
this
one
warning you can hear the vowel in there
that's really
cool hi cha we're making terrifying
sounds happy Halloween
um where is
the oh wait not this one well this one
oh it sounds weird to
Mono oh
well I mean it's good enough it's good
enough
okay let's try this
one whoa okay that early
one that's kind of cool setting
and what's crazy about that is Let's do
let's hit resampling and just
do this could become so many different
sounds
so so like if you pitch this down
and put that into like a
here give it one of
these I mean that's just a kick drum
[Music]
I mean that's that's what the source
sound
[Music]
so that's a kick Dr we just made with
that honestly and then we just like
render that
out got that click and
start we could render it with the fade
[Music]
another thing you can do is layer like a
high hat underneath it to give it some
more
um to give it some
more I mean we were just talking about
Sophie so we can take
no this one
[Music]
again so we still have that
sound and then we
can here's what we can do can do a
been using this so much we can go um
it's
and you can take this and you can
say one of
these maybe more noise who knows let's
see
let's push something through
it and then we resample
here then easily we have a snare now
what
[Music]
sorry my fault
is
that's a snare
right I mean this one now now this one
is kind of like lacking
I think that's better
[Music]
um there you go I can read
nice now it has this weird
like yeah
h
make a track where the instrument is a
highly modified version of the same
sample that's what I did on the last
stream actually I even
kidding I guess I tend to do that it's
very
fun we did that with the Discord
notification sounds I think it
was oh is this German base
just turn on base
can I take this sound again
all right there's our high
Hots just take this and then we give it
some of the old sooth treatment
made a little rack that every time
it hears a transient it pans something
left or
right
um it decided not to work or oh it needs
to doesn't want
work
okay fine be that
way I'll just Ste the old fashion way
less clean
I we can darl like
it's not even proper dnp this is like
more dance
floor
but can go
deeper all
right let's go into
bring this
[Music]
here it's our sub now
oh well lot a a little fun
[Music]
get
n
this needs to be thinner
here we
go e
what if I change this to
triplets we're going in NOA
territory for
change that to me
triplets there we go that's better
that's much better
and
like what are we doing we're doing this
thing let me go
oh
okay okay hold on
is
[Music]
d
is
all right what else can we do with the
sound I was trying to make a symbol out
of this
okay hold on that's also not what I was
trying to do but
I guess there's that can we do another
texture in
this this is still all with the same
sound which what was it was like the
halflife button
right i' I think I've forgotten but I
feel like it was the halflife button
[Music]
okay but I want a symbol
that's what we were trying to
do okay we need to put like a frequency
gate
here yeah that
works for
e
so we're making a symbol out of this
and it can go on every
here don't worry about the project
that's titled um Silent Hill funny
moments that's not
real that's not even a real thing
I always have to
oh
[Music]
um one
second okay sorry if I open my my um
project folder you'd see so many like
unreleased things we can't talk about it
right now
you already saw Silent Hill funny
moments like that's already scary enough
like I'm like oh my God you guys can't
know about that um but
also zenaptic emailed
me telling me about this new plugin and
I can get a hyper discount on it cuz I
own the other
version let's let's let's play with that
for a second it is called I haven't put
it in a folder yet
so I can read
okay I can still read it's pitchmap
colors which is like pitchmap but it's
more streamlined for like EDM usage
okay we're in F
minor so let's clear these
so we can turn that [__] sound into a
weird ass thing like
that is it what au5 helped with I don't
know that wouldn't surprise
me I'm very appreciative
actually I kind of like the thought of
it like going down and Pitch again like
this Tori says blows you up big it's
that's not how it was said but okay
I kind of want this to be more
Airy sometimes I use Ott as a
tree you should always use
OT everyone's like a it messes with your
faces it's like mess with your face shut
the [__] up
and then we put in
[Music]
here that would be really a really cool
like reverse end
that was the original
snare okay wor that one's
how many how many pitch shifters are we
using today
let's get rid of that
I guess that
works the fact that this stop yelling at
me so that this is why I can't use those
High feedback delays it's because I'll
pause it and I'll start talking and it's
like pay attention to me I'm I'm so loud
it's like sh enough of this no
more I don't even remember what the
sound was anymore it was a source
button there's I deleted the S plant
track
so I don't remember which one it
was it was this one every single sound
in this demo here is just made with the
sound somehow
like everything just comes from
this cuz we made we used sin plant to
make this sound with that
sound so and then every sound in here is
just a processed version of this one
somehow
I mean okay let's see what we can do
with this as a raw
sound excuse me I dragged you into the
sampler that's really cool pitch down
doing doing dotted rhythms is so fun
because it sounds like it's off time but
then it's like not off time it's just
really hard to do
you sort of have to ignore your brain
just to do them it's my favorite I love
ignoring my brain
oh I not put that on the right thing
he
[Music]
who's
yelling who's
screaming this is me when I stub my
[__] hoof
let's make it
longer it really is someone
[Music]
yelling it's actually um Dax flame
scream particularly the point that was
used in G 3 that was like chopped up and
just
became
that my brain is full of YouTube poops
[Music]
[Applause]
holy [__]
oh
[Music]
wait what the [__] I pitched that down
on accident
[Music]
[Applause]
okay this is kind of
[Music]
[__] what if we increase oh wait
let's do the trick
[Music]
again everything you're hearing came
from this
sound this is
truly valve if you're listening get me
on halflife 3 I'll make this stuff it's
it's reminiscent of the OG soundtrack I
can get you I can
[Music]
help also I
recently
discovered this plugin by
Melda which does a weird thing to it's
like disperser but it's even
weirder I'll put this thing on the
master because it's just
funny this
[Music]
is
super [__] fun I wonder if see there
there goes that delay I can never never
automate your delays to go over a 100
because that's what'll happen they'll
just start screaming at you every 10
seconds
I'm going to put this on
here actually maybe it's a bad idea so
much latency
but it's fun so you know
[Music]
Sor got that one got this
one what else could we do to this
this we
could we could make a wave table on of
it but at that point it feels so much
more different than the source material
so in terms of something you can work
with could I get the sounds to
sing how do we do that
well there is a way but it would require
using something that
isn't just the source
sound um okay we're gonna I'm going to
try
this everyone in chat I'm going to do
this and you let me know if this is
challenge legal if you think that this
is okay because so far everything in
here has been made purely with just the
source s yes it's pun intended Source
material but
this is um everything so far has been
just with the source sound either the
original sample or the S PL version so
what I'm going to do something here let
me know if this is challenge
legal
okay feel free to say it isn't I will
accept that it's not
doable if you say so
however we're we're going to take this
and repeat it for a very long
time so that's part
one the next part is we go over
here and we can grab
like
um can take for example the vocals to
Yak song I can get to
[Music]
and we can put these
together
okay and then what we're going to do is
we're going to take one of
them
and
put um morph on
it we're going to mute this I think
that's how it works and then
we oh dear where's the side chain
option there should be a side chain
option oh okay we will press
in with this one and we'll go um to
14 I think that's how that works
I think I'm entirely forgetting how to
do this routing
situation
um maybe it is just the SC maybe it is
just the SC let's find out we'll take 15
in there we go okay we got it so what we
do is we modulate one with the other so
for
example we can cross trade between
[Music]
that let's this
down but we can't we don't we don't just
have to cross fade what we can do with
this plugin is instead of just cross
fading we can take one or the other and
modulate the opposite one I'll show you
what I mean by this so again we can
cross you between one or
[Music]
two but if we go any other direction you
know aside from this here we get this
[Music]
every word
chat is this for the challenge we're
doing here is this legal or is this is
this is this not true to the source
sound can you let me
know because we it is
modulating um something that isn't the
original
sound or vice versa
it's still using the source but we just
have something else what if you morphed
it with itself that's actually what it
was doing on accident a few minutes ago
it just making it sound a little more
blurry the voice is simply shaping the
wave like your other tools that is true
because we are using waveforms on
different like plugins and it's Bas
those are basically just oscillators
so it kind of depends on your
interpretation in this case the
oscillator is an actual audio waveform
where the other one is other ones are
generators but we have been using custom
waveforms for other
things which is in a way the same
thing so that is an interpretation
I think I yeah I think I only see one
one comment that descents if there are
any more speak up
now so we can get a fair fair
competition between these two
opinions yes it is true the difference
is that the waveforms in other cases are
not audible they're just purely
modulators whereas this in this case the
we're modulating the sound with is an
audio of something else and not just a
waveform
so thank
you you done with
this shout out to ice cream shout out to
uh M McDonald's
McFlurry that they just gave me
it's technically cheating because how
much justification you need but it's
also worth
it yeah okay now now we're getting a bit
more Balan in the opinions
like I think everyone agrees
that it's
not it's not really part of this
challenge but it sounds cool
like it's like it's not really like it
works with the challenge but at least it
sounds cool that seems to be the
consensus
so it's a
stretch I mean I'll play it again I'll
see if people think again
big
yeah so for those who just joined
everything here in this
part all of those sounds were made
either using this uh made either using
um
this as the source sound or the send
plant interpretation of
it which was that one
so in this case this is where we're
we're doing something without the source
sample and we're trying to figure out if
it's like legal for the challenge
because we're using morph to modulate
one The Source sound with a non-source
button sound
rules AR made to be broken I mean I
agree but like for the sake of the
challenge question mark but I think
everyone wants us to do this though so I
guess I guess we'll do it
someone sound like Splatoon for a second
actually I have to show you this one
second I
have a version of brohoof that I
made called the Splatoon
edit the split it's the broho Splatoon
edit
so here we go
B
[Music]
aside from the Splatoon vocal edit part
of that whole situation I got to be
honest I just like broo SP up sounds
really good um how you Splatoon five
vocals it's basically just taking like
pitching things up and then adding a
filter that just wobbles back and forth
and that's like yeah I should have I
should have done it to the vocal chops
too I just I put it on the vocal bus
that I had and the vocal chops weren't
actually going through that bus so
whatever
[Music]
all right I think I'm going to settle
with that right there and just like
resample this really quickly
[Music]
actually not just that but hold on one
one moment because I swear to God I have
the fresh
prin belir AC capella
intro is this
it now this is a story all about how my
life got flip turned upside down and I'd
like to take a minute and just sit right
there I'll tell you how I became the
prince of a town called
belir yo hes
[Applause]
the in West Philadelphia born and raised
on thegr but let's put it onto the
modulation
track he's in
danger he's in pain
you could hear him
speaking I hate
this he's not all right
put that into a talk box even better
even better even better than a talk boox
bitp
it does sound like tamad life with the
saw
[Music]
modulation he's trauma
ding then we can
then we can um do this
[Music]
that
then we can go ahead and get um Pitch
map colors in here again did I say we're
F minor
[Music]
and all we can do is we can take
um take shaper box as we
do and do one of these like
[Music]
e
for e
someone asked earlier if I could say one
of my favorite favorite plugins is it's
definitely shaber box if that wasn't
obvious you can use it for so many
different
things shaver boox is not the cheapest
plugin in the world but if you had it
you could use it to replace like so many
other things that would be like 15 times
the cost of it on their own so
if I turn shaer box off now listen to
what happens
that is this that is the original sound
we exported
[Music]
all right let's go ahead and resample
that now I think we've done enough
tweaking of that
if you think this is doing funny things
to your ears right now listen to what
will happen when I do the whole panning
trick you'll hear that in the
second e
all right cool I got that recorded
everyone say goodbye to the uh Will
Smith source button collaboration
because I'm deleting these tracks
now cuz now we just have this
[Music]
so right now this is in a straight
Rhythm we'd have to do to make it fit
here in specific as we' go and do
[Music]
[Applause]
you also have that there I'm going to
mute that and save that for now
[Applause]
[Music]
okay
so um before I do anything else I'm
going to show you how I organize my
tracks because this is a very important
thing for me because I always want to
have the maximum amount of like uh free
workspace in my in my sessions so here's
what I do this
is a melody
bus this will go on the FX
bus that go on the FX
bus FX
bus
Melody drums
base
bases
drums these all go in the drums
and then I always put base at the bottom
drums after
that effects Melody and if there were
vocals that would go way at the top but
in this case I'm just going to have
like little graveyard of stuff in case I
want to pull from it and then here's a
neat thing you can do in
Ableton is you can right click all of
your groups and then after selecting
them and right clicking them you can do
a assign track color to group tracks and
clips and then just color codes them all
according to their parent
group and that's how I tend to organize
[Music]
everything FL I'm pretty sure you can do
something
similar I just don't remember how to do
it but FL is pretty good with organizing
stuff
[Music]
I've been using FL more lately actually
like I haven't made a song in it yet but
I've really been enjoying
it f studio is great I think what we
should do for the next stream next time
I stream
is I'll see if I can make a song in FL
Studio FL Studio nerds in the chat I
will need your help because there a lot
of things that are just super I just
absolutely know how to do in Ableton
that I don't know how to do Studio
so please if you know E Studio please
join me in my next uh stream hopefully
we'll make a
song in FL Studio and please help me out
but okay let's push this away because
obviously that's a
drop
um for
[Music]
so I guess it's a loop we have now our
Will Smith
Loop so this here I I like that it's
just an interjection so I just like I
don't know why I sample that I can just
like drag this here
let's go ahead and high path
it get that click to go
away and then let's Echo it out
[Music]
what did I did that snare earlier was
also I'm sorry I'm a maniac and I I'm
doing this
in in the audio section I don't use drum
racks too much I'm sorry
[Music]
everyone and then
that e
[Music]
again I know this would be easier if I
just put things in a germack
but I get so scared if I can't see the
waveforms
I like seeing the waveforms because
because I just like
it for some reason I feel more in
control and like I understand what's
going on because I can
read waveforms e
[Music]
have like a breakdown here
okay we have to find a way to make a new
new base out a this
thing
um
sampler I guess we could try this face
plant but I'm not as intuitive with this
thing just
yet two Samplers here
and then we'll
get the sound put in both of
these
[Music]
for for
that
yeah it is a little weird that that that
you can't shift the sample as expected
but it's
[Music]
fine love
that firsty t is such a good compressor
cuz you can make it distort if you want
it to but if you don't want to distort
it's just so good at sounding
clean in this case it's like a little
bit of
[Music]
both foldy Distortion actually that's
not such a bad
idea let's get our do we have a
sign yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
that's
it love
that yeah signf Distortion is just some
of the best [__] ever trust me
oh yeah oh yeah that's it that's like
actually it that's so [__]
good and that's just with this sound
still just in here now I put two copies
of it because I want to see if we can
get it to phase let's
see oh my God
[Music]
how has the sound been just such a great
like way of sound designing just
starting with this one
sound like I don't understand how it's
like so versatile and what it could do
[Music]
oh that's delicious that's so
delicious okay just that slight phasing
because it makes that a little bit
wobbler now I'm curious let's make sure
we have another compressor at the end of
this what if we do this do your little
FM
then then this one we put on a this and
then we do
is
[Music]
maybe
not this could really use some like
mid-range Distortion to bring out that
little growl part so go Saturn and then
like
here maybe to an ulum follower
situation let's do it backwards
[Music]
though so that way what we're doing is
we're making it so that the quieter the
sound is the more Distortion it is so
that when we get stronger that sound
comes in more it actually pulls back the
Distortion so it doesn't go too crazy
that's what we're doing
here and see that makes it sound so much
more transparent
that's what the envelope follow is
for this is so good sounding I'm a
little mad cuz like a lot of times when
I do my bases and my growls and stuff
all I'm doing is like proper synthesis
like I'm going the serum or like vital
and I'm like taking my time with the
oscillators and like doing everything
from scratch meanwhile I'll just like
throw this [__] s plant sound into a
thing and then it just sounds great
so it's like I don't
know Bonnie should have never brought me
should have never brought me
McDonald's
[Music]
anyway the base in hotline Android is I
had an 808 and I just put it into a
sampler and then I did a pitch
automation thing and added so much
Distortion and compression
I don't remember if it was an 808 I made
or was a sample from somewhere else but
that's the just of it and that's how we
made this kick room too
um is we took this sound put it in a
sampler and then did a pitch automation
with the
envelope and played it really low and
then we got a kick Dr out of it so a lot
of cool sounds can be done that way
also been playing around a little bit
with um fuse
compressor oh yeah I I have actually I I
can't promise anything right now and I
don't want to get into the too much
detail but um um let's just say I am
trying very hard to get my to make some
sample packs and get them into
places that's all I'm going to say right
now I hope that makes sense
I am doing more than considering it
trust me
how do you image the base so that's
actually because of just that's just how
the sample
was um this thing here it starts off
mono and then it just does a bunch of
like Reverb And Delay stuff and then
when we pitched it down it sounds so
much more
crazy so it does that for
[Music]
can we do this uh
theato oh we totally
can yo shout out to kiloh Hearts this
thing's [__]
awesome oh [__] what the [__] hold
on what that what that two octus
[Music]
up that's a little crazy I'm honest with
you
yeah this is a little crazy I'll be
honest be honest
[Music]
we can start with this like low past a
bit
more oh my God
[Music]
the base here
um sounds so much less interesting now
because of this one
[Music]
how do we make this one more interesting
I'll start with how the drums here
[Music]
um it was a complete
accident this is technically a 170 but
like when we were messing around with
like sin plant the way it the way it
happened was I made a kick in a snare I
just started arranging them and it just
happened to be at 85 beats per minute
instead of
170 so that's the only reason why
there's no other reason
why I just didn't feel like changing it
it's a valid question though
[Music]
we'll improve that transition
but we got
this we we'll improve this whole thing
but
[Music]
[Applause]
oh my God wait that was playing in the
[Music]
background hold on I also want to get
that sound whatever the [__] that was
[Music]
that sounds like some Sega some old
school Sega [__] that
[Applause]
sounds what we can do is we can reverse
this and use this as part of this
transition here
[Music]
I think during this buildup also we
should totally introduce this melody
here and in a case like this I don't
want it to have the exact same like
stuff going on here so what I'm going to
do is I'm going to make like a group of
effects for just this part so I can turn
it off and on as is I think this is a
good chance for lassi to shine because I
like it using as a filter
[Music]
like
this and then when this when this part
comes in we just turn off this group and
that's how we can get like kind of two
versions of the same sound but like
without having two tracks you just have
like an effect rack here you can flip it
on and off like this
[Music]
oh yeah we can also reintroduce that
sound we can say
let's use this for
and I'm perfectly okay with the phase
dispersion that comes with
eq3 as long as it's not either I use it
as a strong effect or use it in a way
where it's not going to matter anyway
but E3 does have like the weird phase
dispersion thing like if I duplicate
this a million times it becomes
this you know what that sounds great
we're using it
what happens if we make this
halftime I like this
maybe this is a good time to put on um
it was uh that phase thing free Phase
from MDA and just see what this sounds
like for fun
I like that too or freeze and flatten
this
[Music]
sh
all right next next thing I want to make
a break out of this
[Music]
like so then we take this and we put it
in and slice mode here
what
that's kind of wonky and I like it let's
see how that sounds throughout the whole
thing
[Music]
actually there's this there's this um
signal chain that I recently made and
long story short it turns anything you
put into it and makes it sound like it's
coming through like a like a phone and
it's like oh so it's like a bit Crusher
it's like a convolution thing it's like
H kind of but like what it does is it
simulates a lot of different stages that
happens for like phone signals and like
the internals of an old cell phone and
so it's like it doesn't really sound
like an imitation it genuinely sounds
like it's coming through like a phone
call I'll first and foremostly I'll put
this effect that I made on the master
itself so you can hear what it sounds
like in that
context sounds like that
like it doesn't just sound like an
imitation it sincerely sounds like an
actual cell phone and so I was thinking
let's put it on this thing see what
happens
for
it it does lose a lot of high end that's
why I'm trying to
like bring it back
so now what we can do is we can do
um take one of these cops and put them
here
all right now we freeze and flatten
these hopefully this fixes the issue of
losing that High
Fidelity so I've split them into kick
snare and the high hat section made the
effect less prominent on the high hats
so we can blend between the two of
them so what we can do here compress
this really
hard so it evens things
out and I noticed that I forgot to I
added the high hats back back onto the
kick and snare section and I'll show you
a little
trick obviously you could take like the
high hats and then put a something like
a glue compressor on it side chain the
kick DRM which is the last
one and have that side chain to the kick
drum like
this which is cool that works but here's
the technique I've been using lately I
actually let shabber box volume make a
shape like this
this make it short audio side chain make
the side chain the kick drum and now I
can look at the
waveform of the side chain and like
actually place it where I want it
now we can take these and we can run
this through our favorite our favorite
little guy our most beloved little guy
lossy and we can automate this to come
out like this
and then I'm going to put another lossi
after it which will go out but it's
going to be on packet uh repeat mode
slow like this and then like this
[Music]
and then for good measure we'll put a
filter that opens up right at the start
[Music]
let fix
so we're changing this to a different
note here
we change
[Music]
make a new fill here
take the the pitch envelope and make it
shorter here
[Music]
and here what we can do is be
instead of it going from up to down we
can change it the opposite for this one
section we can go
oh
[Music]
sometimes I do that sometimes I'll be
like what happens if I just do
[Music]
that sometimes you get cool results I
don't know
[Music]
let's make a new sound out of this
that's for
[Music]
that
that's
[Music]
here's my favorite Ableton feature check
this out this little knob here in the
Ableton sampler you just turn it up and
it does
this and what what that does is here
I'll play full chords really quickly
with that off
[Music]
and when you turn that on it makes it
sound so much
[Music]
Fuller for
it gets even better if you do this to it
[Music]
to get the pluck so it's a really short
pitch Bend um if I extend the pitch bend
it sounds like
this so you have it go up really high
and then down low instead of like
letting it swoop you just
do and kind of fakes sounding like a
pluck as a result of that
[Music]
and if you want to sound extremely
magical then what we
do is we go and get
crystallizer where are
you I guess I have this one right
now and then we
see then you get that
[Music]
I don't always tune it to see sometimes
I do just depends on my
[Music]
workflow yeah the original sound is this
Dam this making me want to make a whole
of their song like
[Music]
now we're in a forest and there's these
funny little
[Music]
animals can we change the pitch Bend
amount where was that
can we I don't remember if we
can my brain is
malfunctioning
change pitch Bend amount ablet to
simpler
oh it has to be a
sampler but like simpler is
superior everyone knows that oh
[Music]
well we can add like a
sketch cassette before about stuff and
do do one of these change these to this
and then do one of these
[Music]
I could just keep playing this I'm going
to get too distracted if we just stay
here so this has been be great but we're
gonna strip it back
now so what crystals is doing is it's
creating an echo effect
but it's not just a normal Echo effect
what it does is it takes each Echo tap
and it pitches it differently so you can
say okay next time this Echoes make it
five notes upwards or next time this
Echoes make it an octave up and octave
up the next time and then octave up the
next time so then it does
that you get that
um valhala delay has its own version of
that and you can see exactly how that
works where if I changes to pitch mode
and I change it to five semitone or
seven semitones up then it's going to go
up a fifth every time
so and if you have it really short it
justes like
this what I usually like to use this
effect for when I'm using the valala
delay version is because you can tune it
super tiny so you can go
like
[Music]
that which is a really cool effect and
then of course if you overdrive the the
feedback which I love to do of course
[Music]
also I just have to say
this I do have a lot of different like
delays and reverbs and I love all of
them I use them all for different
reasons and I have them because like if
there's a specific sound I want and I
don't want to waste my time trying to
put it together myself I will just like
be like okay I'll use this I'll use this
very specific delay or Reverb however it
is worth mentioning that if you want to
get like one
effect in the whole
world and you have a limited
budget get valala delay this I you want
me to you want me to be an advertising
agent for them because I will small
delay of course let you do Echo effects
like
this and it sounds great it's perfect I
love how on the tape mode each delay
gets darker you know it's very vintage
sounding you can add some
[Music]
Distortion you can change its sort of
internal
routing to be cleaner
or dirtier you can add pitch pitch
warble like
that EQ the high and low stuff without
fre like messing with a lot of other
parameters like it's just perfectly
set but and then that's what that's kind
of what you want out of a delay right
but this thing is just perfect you can
say okay it's time for a ping pong
delay cool
you can set them both to note mode so
it's
synced you can drive the feedback way
hard and get effects like
that um you you set this to like the
quad mode which I don't use a lot but it
gets gets really interesting
it's more rhythmic it changes the the
rhythm of the delay because it's
basically mimicking how a tape delay
Works in real
time so you can get a swell effect or
just that normal um
like pitchy not pitchy but like it's
kind of
Snappy versus the
swelling and then you can turn off the
different delay heads like
this it's like that's all great and the
thing is as I have only been using one
algorithm because there's all these
different
algorithms for the delay the last thing
I'll talk about before I change the
algorithm
though is you can use this diffusion
mode and it stops being a delay it
becomes a
Reverb no more delay it's a Reverb now
because it smears the delay stuff and
becomes a
Reverb so like it's not a delay it's not
just a delay you have a Reverb now all
of a
sudden and it can be warbly or it can be
clean just take this stuff
away like how is that
fair first and
foremost that's so much power in just
like just
there but then there is the algor alms
so you can change this to the high-fi
mode which is much brighter much
smoother and you're going to get more
delay tabs out of it because it doesn't
like um lose as many frequencies with
each
tap actually let's do that on swall mode
that'll be
fun oh yeah yeah let's try to delay all
the way down feedback all the way up
listen to
[Music]
this right
so do some crazy [__] like
that I also love the spread knob which
you know of course you can have a ping
pong delay that goes left and right but
this thing offsets it ever so slightly
you do get some phasing problems with it
but it's really nice to just with the
turn of a knob that delay
becomes more
stereo it's so simple like it just
works and then of course you have high-f
five mode yes the Bucket Brigade delay
which is really dark this one gets super
like
crushed frequency wise as it as it
echoes
[Music]
out then you have digital which is the
cleanest possible one I think this one
is pretty much
just the sound itself and whatever
changes you you make to the signal chain
so
no nothing crazy going on for it so this
is the cleanest one you want a clean
delay you get this
one and then you get the this is this is
after these top four here are like
that's the safe Zone that's like these
are what you expect from a delay this is
normal I'm not going to freak out but
then once you go lower than digital on
the algorithms then it's time to freak
out because it changes so much like what
you could what could you possibly do to
make this delay even crazier well you
can add a frequency shifter inside the
delay chain so when you choose ghost
mode you lose your your
um
oh sorry uh one of one of my Hol delays
was freaking out so you choose ghost
mode you lose your pitch warble control
and it's replaced with a frequency
shifter and it works exactly as you
expect it just puts a frequency shifter
in the feedback loop which
means that sounds great but then when
you pitch shift something or frequency
shift oh it starts
to and now let's let's make this a small
delay with a lot of feedback and then
you
get
[Music]
or and then let's add diffusion to that
let's make it a Reverb version instead
and then it does this
[Music]
instant horror music it's great um yeah
so I I'll get to that the ghost mode is
a frequency shifter it's not a pitch
shifter when we get to the pit shifter
you'll see that then you can change it
by semmit tones because it's not it's
not frequency based it's pitch pitch
pitch based um and in these pitch based
modes this Dune knob it actually changes
the left and right
channel so if I turn it this
way or this
way it pitches each left and right side
differently depending on how far you
turn it whereas this one's like a master
control you can type in values too yeah
you can double click on the number and
just type
eight 8 z z I guess I guess it doesn't
want to do that
but oh there it goes so yeah you can
literally double click the numbers and
type in whatever you want as well if
that's something you like to do I prefer
to do it by ear because I don't want it
to be perfectly imp pitched usually I
kind of like it when it's
imperfect because then it um it has more
like phasing
Pleasants pleas pleas is that a word
Pleasants pleasantness I guess
[Music]
Pleasants so ghost mode pitch mode and
then there's reverse pitch it takes the
pitch version of the delay and it
reverses the signal
so the delays are reversed
compareed to the input signal which is
[Music]
forward but they don't stop
there um so that's where the
experimental stuff starts is after
digital we go into ghost pitch and
reverse pitch but then they bring in BB
duck which is a Bucket Brigade delay we
have a BBD over here but it adds ducking
instead and what that does as um every
time you press every time the delay
hears something it pushes the delayed
signal away for a second so for example
if we go back to bucket brigades the
normal one
let's do
this you can hear every time a note is
pressed it just keeps going but if we
switch this to the duck version and we
add some
ducking you can see when it hears a new
signal it pushes the echo away for just
a second
and
so basically the what what happens with
that is you can have some crazy delay
stuff like let's go let's go
crazy see whenever it hears a new note
it pushes all the delay
away and you get this super cool pumping
effect it's like a damn I would love
that on like the tape delay version well
I have great news for you because
there's a duct tape algorithm which is
the tape algorithm but with the ducking
feature instead of the other feature so
now
I
[Music]
there is no way you can tell me that
this isn't the coolest
delay if you're familiar with delays and
Echo units you can't tell me this isn't
the coolest delayo unit you've ever seen
and if you're unfamiliar with those
entirely you can't tell me this isn't
the coolest like special effect you've
ever
heard it's so
versal it's so crazy Clarity is it's
basically the digital version with
ducking
and then there's the pitch version so
you have the pitch delay with ducking
instead so let's
[Music]
do and then it just gets
weirder because then
once you go past here then you get here
which this one is like the the the low
fire one is a tape delay but it's like
extremely deteriorated this one's
distorted to
[__] let's turn the re
down like listen to
that that thing is screaming
[Music]
so the LOI one is just as absolutely
de decimated yeah absolutely decimated
version of the tape delay it's like oh
my God what else can we do to make this
even crazier and it's like ther
squirtz and this one is like
this one's
cleaner but it has the ducking of
course the age controls differently it
is an EQ control compared to the Circuit
changing it does to the previous
[Music]
versions so this one's a clean delay but
it like Fades out really
quickly and then there's
the what we what could we do more to
make a crazy delay well in phaser ddl
what they did is they added a [__]
phaser inside of the feedback
loop instead so now your warble controls
get removed and now you have a phaser
control
instead so do you get this
effect let's turn the Distortion
down now if you're familiar with delays
I don't think you've ever had the
thought I should put a phaser inside my
feedback loop so I've never had that
thought before Valhalla delay came along
and it's like I don't even know how this
guy like cuz Valhalla is just one dude
is literally just one person who makes
these um I'm like I don't even know how
he came up with this let alone actually
[__] did
it it's insane to
me like he programmed all of this and
designed all of this by himself himself
and it just like works it's yeah it's
literally one guy it's not a
company it's one guy um and so he's like
yeah I think we could
put but is there a mode with any mode
with Reverb yeah if you use the
diffusion it turns it into a Reverb so
it does
this and then of course course there's
the rich pitch which is pit shifting and
ducking but then the whole situation
with the mixing is
different it it's a little crazier than
the rest of
them you're asking for the uh fifth
interval so let's do that
[Music]
so yeah there's the there's the fifth
interval and it gets crazier than this
because okay you can use this as a crazy
delay a crazy pit shifter a [__]
Reverb for [__] sake you can use it as
a distortion cuz check this out if I
change this to tape mode make the delay
super short no feedback at all mix all
the way
up look so now there's no delay going on
right then I can just turn up the
drive and now this isn't even a delay
anymore this is a [__] Distortion
[Music]
unit so you could be like [__] of the
delay stuff [__] the Reverb stuff use
this as a [__] Distortion unit like
who cares and you could change it to the
pitch the or the pitch or the frequency
mode and be like all right I don't want
to use this for the
delay I'm just going to use this as a
weird [__] pit
shifter no delay just just the pit
shifting or the frequency shifting
here
but what I find so incredible about this
thing is it has so many features you can
you [__] I didn't even talk about how
you can change it to like one of the
delay modes and then make it a short
delay a little feedback little
[Music]
warble what are we
doing why is it doing
hold on let's do
this see now I'm not even using as a
delay
Instead This is a [__] chorus
[Music]
I'm using it as a chorus effect
now do all this crazy [__] so many
options but it's also super simple it
sounds great it doesn't even use that
much CPU so if your computer isn't that
great it just works it doesn't use a lot
of CPU I don't know how the [__] he made
that work
um and there are so many competitors
people who are who make effects like
this so for
example um let's look at uh delay tape
201 where are
we delay tape 2011 so this by
arteria at full
price okay okay arteria good work really
good
one where is it so like for example
everything you just
saw with valala delay delay is literally
these three arteria delays in
one but with more because here's a
really long like weird delay here's a
Bucket Brigade delay and here's a tape
delay but you literally have all those
algorithms just as a drop down menu here
instead of as separate things like this
and not only that these are [__] $100
each this is $300 right
here right like [__] Jesus Christ and
the UI is not the best it is not the
most exciting thing to put a mouse on
okay so you have stuff like that um you
have uh Fab filter I love Fab filter so
this isn't a dig it Fab filter at all I
love them so much just need to put that
out there but all I'm saying
is
uh they have a Reverb plugin like this
and a delay plug in like this and all
together that is how much is that it's
$260 so if you want to get Fab filter
Pro R and you want to get Fab filter
Timeless to to do what this
does that is
$260 okay I'm sorry I'm sorry if a hul
delay it's it's getting excited it's
very concerned and it's like okay so
this thing must be super expensive
considering you have to to spend like
upwards of $250 $300 just to get this
right
but this this [__] thing right here
is
$50 it's $50
it it i i that is that's the funniest
thing about all of this is all these
other plugins you're going to be
spending 200 300 maybe even 400 just to
match
it and then you have this plugin made by
one dude literally one
dude by himself programmed it designed
it hosts a website for it advertises for
it
$50 and I bought this thing like four
years ago and I have never paid for an
update also there isn't like a full hola
delay too there isn't like a whatever
it's l every every time you look on his
blog it's like hey guys I added two new
algorithms to the thing you've already
bought and you don't have to pay
anything that's just like how it
works
um when valala delay launched it was
basically all the way to I think it was
here these six algorithms when Bala
delay launched it was these six
algorithms
all these algorithms down here he just
like added for
free
so that
said
um this thing competes with a bunch of
different plugins
combined uses less CPU than a single one
of those plugins is developed by one
person and is sold for what would be
considered like a sixth of the price for
the competition
I am a big fan of pirating I I fully
support it um in I've already said this
before but like if you want to Pirate my
music go for it I don't care I think
that's great if you like my music enough
to Pirate it I'm absolutely honored but
um as much as I support pirating and
like from like bigger companies
particularly I would literally feel so
bad pirating from this guy and I haven't
pirated I've only ever I own every
single plugin on this website and I
bought all of them
so that said yes I should be a marketing
director for something because I know I
know how to sell sh [__] to
people I'm I'm being his I'm being his
free uh his his free advertising right
now but I just I love it so much like oh
yeah not just that he has free plugins
too um in fact uh Valla is super massive
this thing is just 100% free this is a
do I have it
installed I don't
remember I don't have it installed but
this thing is free super massive is free
and basically the whole idea of it is is
it's like supposed to be a Reverb that
is extremely like it goes on for a long
time it's super Lush it's super big
sounding and a lot of people swear by it
like I was using it for a while I got a
new computer so I just haven't installed
it yet um but it is such a good Reverb
and it's like 100% free yeah it works on
Windows um just the thing is you need to
have like FL Studio or Ableton or
something to run it because they don't
these don't work by
themselves so you have to have like
Ableton or E Studio or logic or garage
Bandon to be able to host
these that's that's the main
thing but um yeah
like a lot of the times there's a lot of
plugins I use uh where I can only have a
few of them in a project before my
computer starts like freak out because
some of these things use so much
processing
power but I literally in every project I
can just pile on a ton of Valhalla
delays which is completely like not even
necessary like you could just make a
send and then put of a Hol delay there
set a bunch of things there but
hi okay
you could have
like yeah sure go for it are those the
marshmallow
ones
are I do love me a bit
variety
Rarity but like this stuff doesn't use a
lot of CPU I don't know how he's
optimized it to be so like bye good
night I don't know how he's optimized it
to be so [__] like CPU friendly like
even on my older computer I could just
pile on all these Valhalla
plugins
um and I don't know like I'm the biggest
fan of valala delay and Valla
plugins so um all I'm saying is that if
you want to get any like effect if you
can choose one effect like you're on a
tight budget or you just want something
that just
works um look at look at fala
delay because you can just accomplish so
much with it and you can just forget so
many other plugins out
there this is probably the big the
longest segment on this on this stream
is just me gushing about this thing
but I I would say that if you hear like
a delay or a Reverb in my music anytime
after
2018 it's 90% of the time probably this
thing I'm not kidding that is not an
exaggeration I would say 90% of the time
all of my music that has delay or Reverb
after 2018 is just this thing literally
just this thing
so yeah I think I spent a good 45
minutes talking about Falla delay but I
hope this convinces
you
um let's go ahead and reset
this so what I wanted to do was
[Music]
like if I just turn this
off just instantly makes things better
[Music]
Okay let's listen to this
e
[Music]
there
a
[Music]
is
oh
[Music]
okay
so let's let's keep this going let's H
this I have an
idea so I'm going to
make take this sound
again we're going to make a wall like
this
and just Loop
it and so basically they all start at
the same time but because they're all
different pitches they all lose phas
with each other so it does
[Applause]
this so then what we do let's not snap
it
so then what we can do here is we can
add
um we can
do let's go with the plate
Reverb and then s best
[Applause]
this is Mak me feel uneasier it's okay
well well there will be rhyme to this
reason and reason to this Ryme
[Applause]
okay let's resample
that so we can use a bitc Crusher to sum
it up to
noise like with this we
[Applause]
do that basically turns it into
noise CU it doesn't have enough bits to
make it sound Dynamic so it just
becomes that know what we can do here's
where the fun this is where the fun
begins
let's go and put Auto Karma on this
[Applause]
and yes the idea is we are trying to
find funny ways to make
noise let SP that now we probably add
another
towel yes
amig really great really great
stuff all right one more phrase then
this is where the fun begins we're going
to force a texture out of it
so now this is like a crash symbol
s
one more towel Maybe
and then freeze and flatten
that and using the source button sample
we have made a little crash
effect so an example of this in use is
like this
see told you there would be rhyme to
this reason and now what I want to do is
do something
more effect like so
[Applause]
let's do something weird with this one
what's that our favorite little little
crystals
all right here's what you'll see where
you'll see what the point of this is
[Applause]
let's
use that free face thing again see that
sounds
cool MDA I can read trust me
[Applause]
okay let's free that right let's not
let's use one more delay
[Applause]
here we
go and maybe a pit shifter
[Applause]
again okay now we freeze
it wait just kidding what's at us
[Applause]
okay now it's fine we're not putting Ott
on this one
sorry it's a great recommendation thank
you portal Des sun is opening I want to
go I want to go I want to go so bad okay
now here's the kicker here's why we
created this funny little sound
so what Su does is it picks out like
where the harshest frequencies are and
it pushes it downward it's called a
resonance suppressor so watch this if I
turn it all the way
up it's picking out the frequencies that
are really harsh and like pushes them
away you can listen to Just the
frequencies that's pushing away
[Applause]
here sorry I had this also
playing it's pushing those
away what is
happening what the [__]
[Applause]
what did I
do I have no idea what I did
that's
cool that's cool but that's not what I
wanted
[Applause]
I don't I think I [__] something
up that's okay I
[Applause]
guess I definitely [__] something up
but I don't know what I
did okay I'm going to do a few more
things here because I think I
accidentally deleted what I did
[Applause]
okay e
almost
[Applause]
there okay that's fine
okay
let's so now what we can do is we can
take this
sound bring it over here and do this
with it
he
had a little one of these
digital ping
pong on one over
four e
[Applause]
[Music]
oh
these are still the difficulty is just
like making all these sounds from scrp
using one thing
[Music]
there we go that sounds
good that SS good I'm proud of that this
is probably the most amount of like
effect samples I made in one
session because sometimes I do make them
but I tend to want to use ones I didn't
make
because they're just more convenient and
they're not like the center piece of
something
but so we can use these to build and
break tension
[Music]
[Applause]
cool um I kind of want to make some like
weird mechanical sounds and it's like
I've already made so many textures out
of all this stuff How would how would I
make something super complex mechanical
and I and I'll show you so again every
sound in here every sound in this song
was made using
this okay still on the same page with
that look like how do we turn that into
some like Transformer
[__] we can take what we already made
here and we can say let's just record
this part really
[Music]
quickly so we have all this here I just
recorded the song
[Music]
Here we can make some mechanical
textures out of
this when we do that so we can start
with something that scans back and forth
and I like to use thing that Tracy
showed
me basically what this does is it's just
scans through the audio it's listening
to at different pitches and rates and
everything like that
[Music]
and then what we can do is we can take U
let's take a sign fold why
not do we have that here or do I have to
go somewhere
else isn't it
this I want to move this knob back and
forth I think that's a fun idea so what
I'm going to do I'm going to add an
LFO see this makes a shape and then
moves like a knob based on the shape so
if I put this knob if I modulate um
this now you can see that this knob is
moving according to this shape here this
is what modulation is where you take
something and then move it move it
around over time that's
modulation but I don't want it to just
be I want to be a little bit weirder so
I'm going to set this from a sign shape
to a random and now every um every 100
Hertz or every one
Hertz this will find a new value to snap
to um instead we're gonna make it faster
so now it's G to jump all over the place
like that but I don't want to go I want
to be like smooth or like scan around
like this so then we use the smooth
control here and now we have a TR really
randomized knob movement here I don't
want to go all the way because that's in
like full noise territory so then I
change the maximum amount that's allowed
to
modulate and now it's just going to go
to the top 70% of that knob and the
result we get is this
we can we can go crazier so let's put
this
away go get Auto chroma because why
not so I'm using
scrubby the effect scrubby this is a
free plugin by the way go pick it up um
big coign
we're going to take this and we're going
to say let's modulate the right here and
the length here both
random both a little fast big depth both
smooth
so what we did to make this sound is we
actually sampled the song we made with
the source button as the source for all
the music and so by extension this is
fine because we already made everything
else with that sound so now we're taking
the sounds are made with that sound and
making a new sound from it
um and I'm going to use a comb filter
let's do that
and just like we
modulated the Distortion with one of
these lfos I've duplicated this LFO and
now we're going to use it to change the
cut off frequency of this [__] filter
and now let's add let me save this
really quickly I'm going to add a corpus
which is a physical modeling
device and we'll change this to a
[Music]
tube and let's duplicate this Alo and
then let's modulate the corpuses tune
with it
let's go over here and duplicate this
again let's change the decay of this
I'm like this is cool but it's a little
bit too noisy let's make it so that it
doesn't go too much into the noise
territory there with
this cool now what we're going to do is
we're going to use shaper box and we're
going to do one of these
changes to be really
slow add a point here here
just do one of these
let's duplicate this and I'm going to
make this one lower in frequency and
then what we're going to do is we're
going to take um
lossi again I love lossi favorite little
thing change this
to this mode here we'll modulate this
this right here we'll do that new Alo so
we get different shapes for everything
because I could modulate multiple things
with the same alfo but I want them all
to be
different find
that so here's an effects chain we've
created if I turn this off this is all
we're going to hear
and when I turn the effects chain on
[Applause]
anything else we could D I mean we could
add one of these I love adding this for
texture
is that is all I want to do this no we
can go crazier let's put
digitalis another favorite little thing
let's try a little one of these and then
uh
come
[Music]
so with a smiley
face let it let it ring out so what this
is is it's a it's a basically a
frequency spectrum
so for example let me take this and put
it on the full song so you can hear this
so
basically picture the top of this box to
be the highest frequencies in the
frequency spectrum and the lowest ones
to be in the lowest frequency spectrum
what you can do here is basically say
wherever I draw don't play any sound in
that frequency spectrum so it sounds
like this
[Music]
but in this case for the sound I didn't
really want to use that effect very much
so um I was just like ah we can just
draw a little smiley face there because
it's not going to do much it's just
going to take out those parts just
briefly
okay now what I'm going to do is I'm
going to
resample and I'm G to mute this a this
outcoming this incoming audio while
Resler
so you
know um sound
design now I can delete this and I might
even save this to my noise
oh I might even save this to my noise
folder so a lot of times I'll just like
sit around and make sounds like this and
then I'll say okay I don't have a use
for this in my song right now but what I
can do is I can save it to this I have a
folder full of just sounds that I make
that don't belong to a song just yet and
I just
like organizm here so this would be
number
26 and we can just call
this
source button mechanics
so let's say for example that I didn't
want to use this for this song but I
like I did like the sound so I've now
exported it and I can go find it again
in this folder your
samples noise then
here and I could show you all these
other sounds that I have like
let
[Music]
surf and turf
granny that was it in here yeah it's
this for
so basically what I do is I will spend
lots of time just like sound designing
and messing with things and then I'll
export it into these folders
[Music]
oh there's
the that's the one I made for
Carousel oh you like the
sound we also have
so all these sounds I made from scratch
and I'll like make new samples out of
them like drums and textures and stuff
or I'll just like use them as is or
stuff but that's like one of my big
processes is just making sounds and
saving them so I have them for later
they are less experimental setting
things as well like
[Music]
I mean here's this
I originally made that a bit twig and I
was like I really like that I'm G to
export it and so I exported it from bit
twig and then I went to
Ableton and that's how uh flare for the
dramatic happened was that that whole
situation
[Music]
recognize this one
I
[Music]
I actually made it so like I was saying
um what I'll do is I'll just sit in
Ableton and I'll make sounds I'll make
like little little Melodies and little
sound effects and stuff and it's like I
don't really have a place for this yet
so I'll like I'll save it after I made
it and then put it in put it in a folder
so I made this sound
[Music]
but I didn't make a song with it yet I
basically was like I don't know what to
do with this I'll figure it out later so
I put it in a folder and then when I was
working on how to kill a monster I
brought it out I like all right we can
do this we can chop this up and make
something cool out of
it um same thing with this what this was
was
[Music]
I made this first on on this little
thing I made this melody on
[Music]
here and I recorded into able 10 so I
can use it
later so when I go through these folders
that's under the Violet samples it's
going to be all stuff like
that so like I just said I just
saved the noise we just made
here I wonder if there's anything else
interesting in here that people would
recognize oh
does anyone anyone recognize this
[Music]
one all right made that um there was a
whole series where I was just making
sounds like
this not
[Music]
that I had this like effects chain so I
just kept putting things through it that
I made um yeah it is let's fly to the
castle
um
so and I've been making a lot of like
I've been making a bunch of these
lately like I've made all of
these so you
know it's one of
those
okay for
[Music]
[Applause]
yeah this is
cool um I'm going to make a new
instrument I'm going to take the one I
already made
here copy and paste it and let's see
what we can edit it to sound
[Music]
like oh God damn it I'm going to just
like really love this and want to play
it for like an hour again
[Music]
let's do
w
[Music]
how do you resist putting delay on
everything I don't I just let it consume
[Music]
me yeah Saturn is multiband
yeah this is still the same still the
source button and if you need proof let
me show you take the effects
off take the filter
off no
Loop so
[Music]
all right let's duplicate this build up
and see I can
[Music]
[__]
um I think we were going to use this
sounds though we're going to take those
ones we made
earlier here
just going to use them as
like oh here's another thing you can do
an able your
fun turn on warping beats transients
Keep It on Back forward ping pong
100 then pitch it
up then just get
that so we can bring this in
here have it as part of the buildup in
both sections
[Music]
and then let's here
let's change this
[Music]
I make each snare here pitch down as
they go
[Music]
down that's a better transition
is
okay let's make a second
drop it should be fun I want to take
that
[Music]
snare something happened when I pitched
it down last time what was it
let's use
that take
this let's squeeze the [__] life out
of this thing
let's use
um
yes what am I say thinking of I don't
know oh of course the [__] what was
it called TDR yeah okay
there's a little click in there I wonder
if we can take that out isotope here's
one of the times I will actually ask for
your help can you deos of
this no you're no help how about
dclick not that
no can you de
crackle
um okay
that kind of fixed it
slightly no it did
okay
ow sorry
everyone I deal with this every
day I'm
[Music]
sorry that's the one complaint I have
with Fab filters their knobs are way too
easy to
overdrive well that's not my only
complaint but that's one of the big ones
e
yeah this is the same project
this is a much better snare
I use shaper box also as like a multi
band
like I my bur uh use shaper box as like
a multi bands uh transin shaper
so sounds good
in
this
is the less fun part of making music is
when you're making sounds that are very
loud and you have to hear them over and
over again
um there's actually a really good snare
I'm a little proud of it
maybe one more compressor to the mullet
again
okay that is a really good
snare it's not even subtle
I think it's really
good okay
Mak you want to replace the other snare
now
[Music]
you know what I guess the snare works
for where it
is but then let's change it here
yeah I can play it from the beginning
soon
sorry when I get focused this is very
normal if you've been to my streams
before but I get very
quiet I don't mind being boring though
very
nice very good
it
[Music]
let's get this in here
yeah everything not we have not broken
the rules aside from the
uh where we messed the vocals from fresh
Peller which
was uh
this
sound that is the only that is the only
sound that was made by modulating the
source button sound with the fresh
prince of
Bair thing yeah it was still a source
sound it was just modulated by him
but yeah everything else including the
drums the effects the bases The Melodies
everything is still from this
sound everything is still from this
sound
okay this this drum beat here is really
[__] tight it's really
clean that's ridiculous to
me what can you say about Carlton what
can you what the heck can you say about
Carlton can you make me a sandwich I did
it God don't ever if if you evoke a you
two poop that I know I can literally
[__] memorize it which is not good
not memorize it I can recite it cuz I've
memorized
it all right we're going to make a sick
base out of this thing a new one a new
stick
face I have some
ideas for
what ke I pressing to disable a portion
of your notes I'm not sure what you
[Music]
mean they're white box do you mean like
do you mean like
this when I bypass a sound or a note
like this
[Music]
I'm just pressing zero once something is
selected
no
[Music]
no m
w w
[Music]
to pop when to pop when you start the
sound it's completely just a byproduct
of the compression I'm using because I'm
using like two OTS and overdrive three
Otts actually and a lot of distortion so
it just like snaps that first part and I
actually don't want that I want to see
if we can fix that
oh
[Music]
he
yeah I'm sorry I work really fast and I
I have a lot of muscle memory so if you
if you're confused as to what's
happening feel free to ask questions
right now I'm just adding Distortion
adding compression balancing all the
filters in between each
stage cuz once you have a distortion
compression chain going and if you have
filters in between changing the filters
is going to be like the tone of the
[Music]
sound let's see if wider will do any
favors for this
[Music]
definitely I'm curious if we can get any
funny sounds out
of
no out of what was it called
I mean we have sausage fattener if you
never seen this plugin welcome to
sausage
[Music]
fattener I I don't think that's going to
be our our our plugin today
but um what was it called it was devil
lock yeah was devil lock there it is
[Music]
I never use this thing so I just wanted
to give it a try I don't think it's
working out for
me I'm trying to figure out how to get
more texture um we can use
trash but I'm always scared of using
trash because it's not supported anymore
I'm like I don't want to get used to
using it if it's not supported anymore
but we could get it around
um I can
read I know I
can yeah
okay let's
just let's just preset surf this one
that's what I prefer to do with trash
this this thing's a little bit
archaic
oh no kills that too much
[Music]
how's that sounded
mono not too bad there's some weird
rumbling going on now
[Music]
can we get the delay out of here oh
there is no delay
what is it the
convolver oh [__]
okay
whoa that's it no turn the [__]
convolver off this is it
[Music]
that that that's the texture I was
looking for that [__] right
there if I turn off all the effects and
stuff now this is what we
get so a very simple like sign wobble
going on there and then you basically
just do this Balancing Act of like hard
compression hard Distortion weird feel
filtering stuff and then once you get a
chain going you like go back and fix the
filters and change up the compression
and add some more things and that's how
you can get to a texture like this from
a sign
wobble oh I just so in Ableton if you
select all your all these things here
hold shift then left click
anywhere to select a multiple then you
do contrl G and that groups them in like
that
okay oh my God
all right let's do the trick so I want
that drum too side
change first let's put a shaper box
here down low here
let me go over here get sh box where are
you go here make a shape like this audio
side chain and that K after 27
oh no it's the next
[Applause]
one
[Music]
nice let's do
get
he
yeah we could do a sign fold there as
well let's try it it's not such a bad
idea
I think it'll be good for to do that
like when it gets a little bit too
intense it gets too loud with the higher
notes so let's try that let's change
this to
it doesn't work very well there but we
could try something else
let's put l here at the end of the
beginning of the Chan set this to
here try this
he
all right now the fun part
[Music]
w
no
oh
he
e
sh
[Music]
damn H know how that
d
okay um I wasn't expecting to just make
a whole song on stream but here we are
um let's do this let's give this a quick
just a quick Master know nothing crazy
but let's just get it quick one
[Music]
[Applause]
why are you so big thank
you it like it was so scary that was so
scary that was the scariest thing
ever got so big Okay let's listen to it
[Music]
[Applause]
that's kind of really sick I have to be
completely honest
[Music]
f
um um that's pretty good not going to
lie I think that's pretty
good um to those who haven't caught up
with the lore that song you just heard
every single sound the drums the bases
the fs the The Melodies all that stuff
Stu was made with this sound as the sour
sound that's it everything was made from
that no exceptions all the effects all
the drums all the bases all the Melodies
were just made from this that one sound
that's it just that one
sound so um with the stream as my
witness with the stream as my witness um
we have accomplished this
and
yeah we yeah good job
everyone great job everyone I'll put
this on
patreon um soon as I'm off the
stream I think I'll just call it button
click release
in in honor of the uh halflife sound
effect that was very fun I was not
expecting to well again this is what
happens when I have no commissions to do
as I actually like follow through and
like want to do more
stuff so there's that um yeah it was
great it was very
funny go ahead and oh it was scared I
got
scared button click
release button
quick
please yeah if only you could do vocals
with the
button I would add vocals
but we have a we have we have our
challenge
here that that was I don't I don't know
what else to say that was like really
fun like I'm so glad we did
this AR on bread sticks over here
with enough White Noise with enough
foldback with
enough
um time
scanning anything is
possible next challenge only vocals
Jacob Coler style that would be fun
also that would be fun
this computer is pretty fast too like
this is a pretty good computer setup I
have going on here I think I
have I think I have 64
no is
it one second let
me let me double
check yeah so we have we have um we have
64 gigabytes of memory on this machine
so having that much
memory it's still crazy how long this
takes how long this xort
takes all right how about
uh how about one last lesson
through the exported
version e
sorry my CPU I think is
uh I think it's 14 CH something like
that it it's still pretty good I think
it's it's in line with the rest of the
specs I have
[Music]
yeah so I was working off of a base
model Mac Mini before this computer
which is um why I needed an
upgrade this Pro and but because of that
I'm able to stream more because now
ableton's not going to now ableton's not
going to choke when I do this many
tracks in a single project
do like so amazing to me that that came
together so quickly and like so well
like it's not doesn't feel very shy to
me a lot of times when I do stuff on
stream um the efforts feel sort of just
like yeah they're cool they're fun
they're they're just for fun but like
that was that was like actually very
substantial in my opinion it was very
fun um bands should do covers on my
songs I hope they
do um and yeah the VOD will be on
patreon as well um you can share it with
people if you're not like send it to
them or if you're not like re-uploading
as long as you're like sharing it with
them directly like over a screen share
or like in person if that makes
sense but yeah that'll be on that'll be
on patreon the song and the
VOD um I've been streaming for six hours
that's kind of crazy
might be the longest stream in a while
I'll double check later
but I think normally my streams end up
being around like three hours or
so yeah three
hours so yeah it's very
fun
um thanks for coming there's more Violet
puny for you to
see
um
yeah um
broke the R song took five
hours thank you very much hope I I don't
sleep for another like five hours
so that's the way things
are it's 3:00 a.m. for me I will sleep
at like 7 or 8
a.m. that is
normal okay than thank you for this
stream remember two become a giant
elephant and be your
best
you can have so many peanuts for sure